# Contributing to Brisbane

Brisbane is an open source project, and we love to receive contributions from our community &mdash; you!
There are many ways to contribute, from improving the documentation, submitting bug reports and feature requests,
or writing code which can be incorporated into the Java Security Provider itself.

## Bug reports

If you are reporting a possible security vulnerability, **DO NOT** use the issue tracking system documented below.
Please follow the process outlined in the [OpenJDK Vulnerability Policy](https://openjdk.org/groups/vulnerability/report).

If you think you have found a bug, first make sure that you are testing against
the latest version - your issue may already have been fixed.
If not, search our [issues list](https://bugs.openjdk.org/projects/BRISBANE/issues/?filter=allopenissues)
in case a similar issue has already been opened.

It is very helpful if you can prepare a reproduction of the bug.
In other words, provide a small test case which we can run to confirm your bug.
It makes it easier to find the problem and to fix it.
Provide as much information as you can.
The easier it is for us to recreate your problem, the faster it is likely to be fixed.

## Feature requests

If you find yourself wishing for a feature that doesn't exist in the cryptography security provider,
you are probably not alone.
There are bound to be others out there with similar needs.
_Please be aware that all new feature requests need prior discussion on_ the
[brisbane-dev](https://mail.openjdk.org/mailman/listinfo/brisbane-dev) mailing list,
even if there is already an open
[JBS issue](https://bugs.openjdk.org/projects/BRISBANE/issues/?filter=allopenissues).

## Using generative AI tools

The use of generative AI tools in Brisbane development is governed by
the [OpenJDK Interim Policy on Generative AI](https://openjdk.org/legal/ai),
which states:

> Contributions in the OpenJDK Community must not include content
> generated, in part or in full, by large language models, diffusion
> models, or similar deep-learning systems.  Content, in this context,
> includes but is not limited to source code, text, and images in
> OpenJDK Git repositories, GitHub pull requests,
> <span style="white-space: nowrap;">e-mail</span> messages, wiki
> pages, and JBS issues.
>
> Contributors in the OpenJDK Community may use generative AI tools
> privately to help comprehend, debug, and review OpenJDK code and other
> content, and to do research related to OpenJDK Projects, so long as
> they do not contribute content generated by such tools.

For further details, please see the [policy and FAQ](https://openjdk.org/legal/ai).

## Contributing code and documentation changes

If you have a bug fix or new feature that you would like to contribute to project Brisbane,
please talk about what you would like to do on the
[brisbane-dev](https://mail.openjdk.org/mailman/listinfo/brisbane-dev) mailing list.
It may be that somebody is already working on it,
or that there are particular issues that you should know about before implementing the change.

We enjoy working with contributors to get their code accepted.
There are many approaches to fixing a problem and it is important to find the best approach before writing too much code.

Note that it is unlikely the project will merge refactors for the sake of refactoring. These
types of pull requests have a high cost to maintainers in reviewing and testing with little
to no tangible benefit.

### Fork and clone the repository

Once you have created a bug report or confirmed its existence on JBS,
you will need to fork the [repository](https://github.com/openjdk/brisbane)
and clone it to your local machine.
See the [GitHub help page](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) for help.

### Before submitting a pull request

If you are a first time contributor to project Brisbane, welcome!
Please do the following before you submit your first pull request:

* Sign the Contributor Agreement

  In order for us to evaluate your contribution, you need to sign the [Oracle Contributor Agreement](https://oca.opensource.oracle.com/) (OCA).
  We are not asking you to give up your copyright, but to give us the right to distribute your code without restriction.
  By doing this you assert that the code you contribute is *yours* to contribute, and not third-party code that you do not own.
  We ask this of all contributors in order to assure our users of the origin and continuing existence of the code.
  You only need to sign the OCA once.

* File a bug in JBS for every pull request

  A unique [JBS](https://bugs.openjdk.org/projects/BRISBANE/issues) bug ID is needed for every pull request.
  Issues for project Brisbane will have bug id with the following format: `BRISBANE-#######`.
  If there isn't already a bug filed in JBS, then please file one at
  [https://bugs.openjdk.org/projects/BRISBANE/issues](https://bugs.openjdk.org/projects/BRISBANE/issues).
  A developer with an active OpenJDK ID can file a bug directly in JBS.

TIP: A GitHub pull request (PR) should not be the first time we hear about your proposed change to
the project Brisbane cryptography security provider.
Unless clearly identified as a `Draft` or work-in-progress (WIP), as described in the following section,
we will usually close a pull request that isn't associated with an existing bug report.
Reading the policies below will help you in getting your change approved.

### Submitting your changes via a pull request

Once your changes and tests are ready to submit for review:

1. Test your changes

   Run the test suite to make sure that nothing is broken.
   For most code changes, you need to provide new tests covering those changes.
   At least one of the new tests should fail before your proposed fix and pass after your proposed fix.
   Tests should be written using [JUnit5](https://junit.org/junit5/).

2. Rebase your changes

   Update your local repository with the most recent code from the main [repository](https://github.com/openjdk/brisbane),
   and rebase your branch on top of the latest `master` branch.
   We prefer your initial changes to be squashed into a single commit.
   See the [GitHub help page](https://help.github.com/articles/about-git-rebase/) for help.
   Later, if we ask you to make changes, add them as separate commits. This makes them easier to review.

3. Submit a pull request

   Push your local changes to your forked copy of the repository and
   [submit a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests).
   The title of the pull request must start with the 7-digit JBS bug id,
   followed by a colon (`:`), then a space,
   and finally the bug title as taken from JBS. This title must _exactly_ match
   the JBS bug, else the [Skara](https://github.com/openjdk/skara#openjdk-project-skara) bot
   will warn about the mismatch and block integration.
   You should include additional details about your change in the Description of the pull
   request. For example, the following is a valid pull request title:

    ```
    8231326: Update README and CONTRIBUTING docs for Skara
    ```

   The Skara bot will then run `jcheck` on the server to verify the format
   of the PR title and check for whitespace errors. Once that passes,
   it will automatically send a Request For Review (RFR) email to the
   [brisbane-dev](https://mail.openjdk.org/mailman/listinfo/brisbane-dev) mailing list.
   The Skara bot will also cross-link the JBS Issue and the pull request.
   See the
   [Skara project page](https://github.com/openjdk/skara#openjdk-project-skara)
   for information on `jcheck` and other Skara tools.

   TIP: Create a `Draft` pull request or prefix the pull request title with `WIP:` if you aren't yet
   ready for it to be reviewed. The Skara bot will not send an RFR
   email unless the PR is out of the `Draft` state and the title starts with a 7-digit bug ID.

   Please adhere to the general guideline that you should never force push
   to a publicly shared branch. Once you have opened your pull request, you
   should consider your branch publicly shared. Instead of force pushing
   you can just add incremental commits; this is generally easier on your
   reviewers. If you need to pick up changes from `master`, you can merge
   `master` into your branch. A reviewer might ask you to rebase a
   long-running pull request in which case force pushing is okay for that
   request. Note that squashing at the end of the review process should
   also not be done. The Skara bot will squash your commits into a
   single commit, and rebase it onto the target branch when the pull
   request is integrated.
   See the [GitHub Help Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/github)
   for additional help on using Git and GitHub.

4. Code review

   All pull requests _must_ be reviewed.
   It is the responsibility of the Reviewer(s) and the Committer who
   will integrate or sponsor the change to ensure that the code review policies
   are followed, and that all concerns have been addressed.

   Discussion and review of the pull request can happen either by adding
   a comment to the PR itself, or by replying to the mailing list "RFR"
   thread. The Skara bot will cross-forward between them.
   To approve a pull request, a reviewer must do that in the PR itself.
   See the following
   [GitHub help page](https://help.github.com/en/articles/reviewing-proposed-changes-in-a-pull-request)
   for help on reviewing a pull request.

   If any changes are needed, you would push additional commits to the branch
   from which you made the pull request.

   The code review continues until there are no unaddressed concerns, and
   at least the minimum number of reviewers have approved the PR -- which
   is one for low-impact bug fixes and two for enhancements or high-impact
   bug fixes.

   NOTE: A Reviewer in the project can set the minimum number of reviewers
   for a PR using the Skara `/reviewers` command. For example,
   `/reviewers 2` is used for high-impact fixes and enhancements to indicate
   that two reviewers are needed, at least one of whom needs to have the
   Reviewer role in the project.

5. Integrate the pull request

   Once the review has completed as described above, you can integrate
   the PR.

   A. Verify the following: all substantive feedback has been addressed; all Reviewers
   who have requested the chance to review have done so; the PR has been "rfr"
   for at least 1 business day (excluding weekends and holidays);
   the commit message is correct.

   B. Issue the `/integrate` command. If you have the "Committer" role
   (or higher) in the Project, then the Skara bot will merge the change
   with no further action on your part. If you are not a Committer,
   then you must get a Committer to sponsor your change. This is often
   one of the reviewers who reviewed your PR, but it need not be. The
   sponsor will issue the `/sponsor` command after you issue `/integrate`
   once they are satisfied that the review criteria have been met.
   The Skara bot will automatically resolve the JBS issue as "Fixed"
   so there is no need to manually resolve it.


## New features

Adding a new feature to the project Brisbane cryptography security provider requires us to consider what it means to support
that feature forever; we take compatibility seriously.
The main idea is to think in terms of "stewardship" when evolving the project. This will require significant effort on your part.
It begins before you submit a pull request for review, and continues after the new feature is integrated.
With that in mind, here are the needed steps to get a new feature added.

1. Discuss the proposed feature on the [brisbane-dev](https://mail.openjdk.org/mailman/listinfo/brisbane-dev) mailing list.
   You should start with _why_ you think adding the feature to
   the cryptography security provider is a good and useful addition for multiple applications (not just your own).
   Part of this is to see whether the Project Leads and Reviewers
   are generally supportive of the idea, as well as to see whether other developers have any ideas as to whether
   and how it would be useful in their applications. We need to ensure that the value
   proposition of the new feature justifies the investment, which goes well beyond the initial cost of developing it.
   Presuming that the feature meets the cost / benefit assessment (including opportunity cost).

2. Submit a review of your proposed implementation.

TIP: a pull request is _not_ the starting point, since that skips the first two important steps and jumps right into
"given this new feature, please review my proposed implementation".

## Building and testing

Instructions for building and testing the project are documented in [doc/build-and-test.md](doc/build-and-test.md).
